As the world is moving forward to using variants of technologies, so has automation improved its ways to make our work easier? Though the word automation was coined in the 1950s, very few people really understood what it meant. So, in this blog on What is RPA?, I will discuss what exactly is the robotic process automation and its various factors.

The following are the topics covered in this blog:

What is RPA?
How RPA Works?
How to Get Started with RPA?
RPA Tools
Comparison of RPA Tools
Market Trend of RPA Tools
Applications of RPA

So, let’s get started by first understanding What is RPA?

What is RPA?
The process of automating business operations with the help of robots to reduce human intervention is said to be Robotic Process Automation (RPA).

If I have to elaborate on each of these terms one by one, then

Robotic are entities which mimic human actions are called Robots.
A process is a sequence of steps which lead to meaningful activity. For example, the process of making tea or your favorite dish etc.
Automation is any process which is done by a robot without human intervention.
So, when we summarize all these terms together, then mimicking human actions to perform a sequence of steps, leading to a meaningful activity, without any human intervention is also known as Robotic Process Automation.

If you wish to learn further about Robotic Process Automation, then I suggest you go through this interesting video on What is RPA?

What is Robotic Process Automation (RPA)?

Now, that you what is RPA, let me tell you how exactly it works?

How RPA Works?

This question has always popped on whether RPA uses physical robots, or are there actual robots present to automate tasks.

Well, let me tell you that RPA does not replace humans with actual robots. But, there are software’s available in the market which let you configure automation workflows to automate your business operations. According to our experts, the demand for RPA certification training is going to rise by 150% due to the lack of the skill set in the market.

Though I have mentioned that RPA is implemented through software which is nothing but RPA Tools/Vendors, let me tell you a few guidelines on how to get started with RPA, before we start discussing tools.

How To Get Started With RPA?

You need to follow the below steps, to get started with RPA:

Step 1: Gain extensive knowledge about the history behind RPA. That is, learn all about Traditional Automation.
Step 2: Learn about RPA and the various Applications of RPA.
Step 3: Choose the process that you wish to automate, and retrospect about the process dependencies. This is a way to make sure that your business doesn’t suffer loss while you are busy automating the task.
Step 4: Gain extensive hands-on experience in RPA Tools, such as UiPath, Blue Prism, and Automation Anywhere.
Now, let me tell you the top tools in the RPA market, which will help you automate tasks.

RPA Tools

RPA Tools/Vendors are the software through which you can configure tasks to get automated. In today’s market, there are RPA Vendors such as Blue Prism, Automation Anywhere, UiPath, WorkFusion, Pega Systems and many more. But, the leaders in the market are the trio (UiPath, Blue Prism & Automation Anywhere). Refer to the below Forester Research on RPA, to know the current ranking of various RPA Tools.
